MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNTO WROTE THIS

Time Machine (TM)

What is a time machine in this context? This chunk explores the concept of 'time machine' in an abstract technical sense.

A general time machine can be looked at as a black box. In engineering, we represent complicated things using black boxes. Black boxes simplify thinking about things, because we don’t need to worry right away about how the insides work…we just care about what it does.

What is a black box? A black box is any thing that takes an input, then it does something to that input to produce an output, where all that is known about the box is what happens to the input to produce an output.

Example, a math black box:

INPUT = ‘1’								OUTPUT = ‘2’		
INPUT = ‘5’								OUTPUT = ‘6’ …etc
			      This black box, adds ‘1’ to input
		            (who cares how it works inside the box).

Define a time machine to be any black box.

A time machine is anything that takes an input, and then changes it.

In math, we call this a 'transformation'.
(Sometimes the change is no change at all... and we call this an identity transformation.)

If I take stuff, and I make it different, then I am a time machine, because this clearly defines a ‘before’ and an ‘after’. Any transformation introduces the notion of before and after, by virtue of being a change. So, in a strict sense, any time we have a before and an after, then we have an arrow of time.

(You are a beautiful time machine, I believe that.)

Let’s get more deliberate about how we time travel!

So, because people take things and change them--they transform things--a person is a black box time machine...that is, it literally generates time. That is the machine. The black box metaphor is fitting for Humans becuase we don't honestly understand what is going on in a brain to create the mind.
		

MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

Time Machine (TM)

So the practical idea of the time machine for peace is…

…the machine is a system of technology and algorithms (ways of doing things) that empower the operator to be deliberate about effectively reaching their best future, by facilitating more effective communication (thus cooperation) between their world, and the worlds of people they may need to interface with to get help for their journey through timespace. In terms of the space that the time machine for peace lives in and travels, this is _timespace_, a conjugate space to spacetime.

For example, in my world piece computer time machine, I have a non-electronic module I call communication-clips or comm-clips for short. Each clip is wearable, and has a different color. I use my clips to communicate with myself and stay mindful of my emotional states. This allows me to keep my head in a more productive place within timespace.

Example continued, if I notice I haven’t slept well for a couple days, I might put a red clip and a black clip, side by side on my hat. That way, every time I see the clips (when I take my hat off to write down a note) I see that I left a red+black clip as a reminder for myself. I think, ‘Why did I place those clips there again?..’ And then I remember, ‘Oh! Red stands for ‘emotional’ (hot) and black stands for ‘negative’ (dark). I am susceptible to negative emotions like anger and irratibility right now, because now I remember I put these clips in my hat yesterday to remind myself that I haven’t slept well in the past couple days…BE CAREFUL!’

So for our purposes, a Time Machine For Peace is a machine or system that helps the operator get to where they want to go. This usually involves the future, often it involves the past, and it always involves the present. This may also involve the real, the imaginary, etc.

																																																														

MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

<< At top of page is the symbol for 'world piece', created by Blair Munro. The symbol is the peace sign, with two vertical bars running from the intersection of the two angled lines, running up to the top of the circle. The forms what looks like a 'W' overlayed onto the peace sign.>>

A world piece is a general time machine (it is also trademarked, though not yet registered).

A world piece changes the way all the world pieces around it (all the pieces in it’s local world) behaves. In otherwards, world pieces _affect_ each other.

I am a world piece in the greater scheme of things. The keys on my keyboard as I type this page are also little world pieces in my Blueberry Hill writing session world. You are a world piece time machine that changes the way the world pieces around you behave. All the objects and ideas and images in your world are all little world pieces that change the way you behave, plus all the other little world pieces that surround them.

World pieces are important because each one is part of a larger world piece computer, or a larger thing or world piece.

Each world piece actually consists of smaller world pieces that make it up.

All these world pieces that make up a world piece form a system that defines how that world piece behaves as a black box time machine.

In short, depending on your perspective, a world piece is either a component of a world piece computer, or it is a world piece computer itself, in its own little world piece world.

What are the world pieces that make up your world?

How can you integrate your world pieces in a way that makes your world piece computer a better (more effective) time machine?

Prompt the Human to think of some world pieces that they have in their world.

																																																																																		`																				

MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

<< At top of page is the symbol for 'world piece computer', created by Blair Munro. It is the symbol for 'world piece' but with a circular 'C' as large as the peace sign stuck to the right of the world piece sign. The rightmost quarter of the 'C' circle is omitted.>>

A world piece computer is a time machine (it is also trademarked, though not yet registered).

THERE IS ONLY ONE WORLD PIECE COMPUTER IN ANY GIVEN WORLD.

A world piece computer is a system of world pieces and the universal piece, which is the world peace process for the operator. The purpose of a world piece computer is to make the operator’s world better, by allowing the operator to more effectively optimize their piece arrangement and run the universal piece.

We all naturally make our own world piece computers (time machines). Our world piece computer time machines are the systems we have in place to get where we want in the future, present, and past. Some of our world piece computers work better than others. The people most successful at getting what they want are the people who treat their world piece computers more like an actual electronic computer treats bits—they are systematic and methodical about processing all the pieces in their worlds.

World piece computers are important because each one is part of a larger world piece computer, or a thing that thinks. At the highest level, world piece computers are computational pieces within the universal piece computer. At the universal piece computer level, all world piece computers have the same status (ie, the topology is flat).

A world piece computer, by definition, needs a brain to function. Brains can be simple, or complex, like the Human brain.

A world piece computer is a distributed black-box time machine that helps the operator achieve their objectives and pursue an unattainable goal, by taking inputs and transforming those inputs to produce productive (useful) outputs.

How does your world piece computer work?

How can you integrate your world pieces in a way that makes your world piece computer a better (more effective) time machine?

Can you teach yourself more about how computers work, so that you can extract useful concepts to make your personal world piece computer better?
																			

MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

<< At top of page is the symbol for 'the universal piece computer', created by Blair Munro. It is the symbol for 'world piece omputer', but with a large 'U' overlayed on the 'W'. The tips of the 'U' extend upward from the peace symbol, and the lower part of the curve extends downward past the bottom of the piece sign. This is meant to suggest that the universal piece computer is the _union_ of all world piece computers.>>
						
The universal piece computer is a time machine (it is also trademarked, though not yet registered).

THERE IS ONLY ONE UNIVERSAL PIECE COMPUTER, BY DEFINITION.

The main thing that makes general computers useful is that we can connect them with other computers to communicate and do productive stuff together. The universal piece computer is what happens when we deliberately network (connect) our individual world piece computers to work together for cooperation toward THE UNIVERSAL PIECE.

Practically speaking, The universal piece computer will be the largest supercomputer in the world.

Also practically speaking, the common goal of The universal piece computer will be to connect worlds in a way that lends toward an evolving universal language.

The universal language will promote group-mind actual intelligence, and this will allow people to cooperate and collaborate despite world differences, so that we can generate win-win solutions to our hard problems. If our hard problems are due to differences in how we see things due to our world views, then our hardest problems are due to external facts of reality that affect us all. In solving our hard problems, I think we naturally set ourselves up to solve our hardest (existential) problems. 

In practice, The universal piece computer will be a network of Human brains.

Because our brains are so efficient (in terms of power consumed) networking brains to form a supercomputer is the only viable way to generate solutions to our hardest problems without frying our planet in the process.

What might The universal piece computer look like?

																																																																

MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

actual intelligence (ai)

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a funny oxymoron to me. AI is just a tool, like anything else. It is only as intelligent as the operator that uses the tool.

We like to glorify Artificial Intelligence, because we like glorifying valuable things. But the thing that makes Artificial Intelligence valuable is just the way that the tool allows us to make informed decisions. Ultimately, informed decisions are based on actual intelligence. The way is just a way. It is a shape, therefore it is a tool.

I propose we focus our energies on improving our actual intelligence, not on glorifying tech singularity fantasies as end-all outcomes in Human evolution.

What is your actual intelligence algorithm? How can you improve your ai?

I believe that the best way to improve your actual intelligence is to build and refine your world piece computer, and by coming up with creative ways to connect your world piece computer to other people’s world piece computers, in ways that help you get to better times.
(Try to do good…everything works better that way.)
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																												
MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

Universal Language

The practical outcome of The universal piece computer is to generate a universal language that serves as a systematic way for individual and collective Human worlds to link (connect) and then communicate effectively.

In general, this is what a world piece computer does. A world piece computer connects all a world’s pieces together in a way that allows those pieces to work together to achieve the operator’s needs.

How else might universal language work?

So if the universal piece is all about figuring out how to best link our worlds together in more peaceful productive ways, then universal language is the way we go about doing that, by facilitating communication for the purpose of better cooperation.

In my experience, worlds usually conflict because people mistake each others’ language to say what they actually mean. Most people try to say what they mean, but the language they use obscures things.

EXAMPLE:
I need to link my world and the world of somebody I know with skillsets I don’t have, so that I can accomplish some objective I hold. Maybe this other person could use my skillsets in return. To most effectively link our worlds together, we need to ‘learn each other’s language’. We also need to invent our own language on the fly, so that we can easily refer to more complex concepts to save time and be on the same page. The better we are at creating a mutual language to link our worlds, the more productive our interactions will be.

In any collaboration, there will be the need for parties to teach each other new words. In the same way that experts have their own jargon, individual worlds have their own jargon and language. The only way for experts to effectively collaborate--for worlds to effectively connect--is for both parties to learn some functional minimmum of the other world's language.

The universal piece computer will be a way of facilitating language creation, translation, and exchange between worlds, in an accessible way, making it possible for world inhabitants and visitors to refer easily to instructions outlining how the local language works, what the words are, the customs, the meanings, etc.

What are unique words that are part of the universal language in YOUR worlds?
																											
MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

The universal piece

So if world peace is unrealistic (realistically impossible), then the universal piece is how I imagine ‘realistic world peace’ would look.

Maybe instead of considering Earth and all the Humans ‘the world’, we should instead consider Earth (and someday beyond) a universe that contains ~ 10 billion individual Human worlds, plus the multitude of larger group worlds that we call ‘friends’, ‘families’, ‘communities’, ‘cities’, ‘nations’, etc. Call this the Human universe.

Considering the Human Universe, the obvious challenge is to figure out how best to fit all the Human world pieces together. Can we do it more peacefully, in a way that gets fewer people harmed by generalized violence?

I think that to make the world pieces fit together optimally, we need to first treat them like abstract computers, formed by collections of Human brains. Computers are most valuable because we can network them. This means we can connect them together, then we can run programs that implement communication protocols to ensure that the computers (worlds) can reliably communicate with each other.

I imagine the universal piece as the process of connecting world piece computers together in a way that evolves continuously, constantly striving toward better connections, and improving communication protocols.

At a high level, if we want to solve our hardest problems, we definitely need to use the ideas that make computers so useful to generate continuously evolving solutions to these problems. Our hardest problems are infinitely complex, and we rarely have the right language to even frame them properly.

Basically, the universal piece will be the 'world peace' of our future. When you think 'world peace', you should try to imagine 'the universal piece', the global peace process.

How do you imagine Universal Peace would work?
																																																																																																						
MARKET RESEARCH BOOTH
BLAIR MUNRO WROTE THIS

World Peace

We need to face it honestly. Humans will always be causing serious problems for each other. Unfortunately, there will always be violence and killing. All scenarios I can conceive of where this is not true, I do not wish to be a part of, because it involves our extinction, or it involves the systematic oppressive violation of some universal Human right (as defined by my ideals born from living in USA, Alaska).

The objective should be to minimize the bad stuff, and set the unattainable goal of actually achieving world peace, with full knowledge that we will never achieve it. This way, the perfection of world peace is simply an ideal that we use to help point our compass, and a construct we use to have conversation to figure out what we mean by ‘peace’.

People often cite HUMAN NATURE, and THE HUMAN CONDITION as reasons why we can’t achieve peace. In practical terms though, appealing to the ‘unsolvable nature’ of Human Nature is silly. We just might not know any better way of doing things.

At least in western culture, Human Nature takes on this negative connotation. I think that Human Nature is not a problem though…it is a strength. The Human Condition is what happens when we don’t know how to harness the negative experience of Human Nature’s bad side—our knowledge of the past and wisdom born from it—for the purpose of systematically improving The Human Condition.

In other words, it really fires me up when I witness calamities. I hate seeing people hurt each other, and I hate myself when my Human Nature causes problems for others and myself. I prefer to use this emotional response I experience to motivate me to change the way I manage my Human Nature for better, and to invent clever technological ways to empower others to manage group Human Nature for better.

To reiterate, it is important that we set unattainable goals. This way, we will always be looking forward toward better ideals. This way, we will always have a sense of purpose. World peace should be our goal. We will in the meantime settle for global peace and the universal piece in place of realizing the ideal. We can always do better!

